#What I've Learnt

This unit was the unit I've enjoyed the most, I wanted to expand my coding knowledge and this unit has allowed me to do just that.

I already had a good knowledge of HTML and CSS, but this unit is the first time I have used JQuery and PHP whilst coding.

JQuery and PHP are both complicated programming languages, however once you understand the basics, such as how the code is written and how it's set out (what dots go where, whether to use brackets or semi colons and the like), it's simple. I've learnt how to use JQuery to add extra functionality, such as creating a sticky header that 'sticks' to the top of the page when you scroll a certain amount down the page, I also used JQuery to create a carousel that featured feature stories that a visitor would like to read, hovering over one side of the screen over the arrow, it would scroll the div in a certain way, showing more stories. Unfortunately when converting this to a theme, I couldn't figure how to fix it, however I believe that it didn't work due to a width not being specified but specifying a width would create more problems. PHP was used to make the theme more dynamic, for example it fetched the names of the categories, these were displayed on the home page for each story column, rather than literally typing in the word, you could use PHP code to fetch the name by using the category ID. This was also used to fetch posts, post titles, and many other dynamic elements.

I also learned more about how CSS works, overcoming styling issues. For example, <?php the _content ?> is automatically around by <p> tags, it is difficult to get around this without adding plugins and functions, using good I learnt about how you can apply styling to elements within another element. Surrounding <?php the _content ?> in a div, and then applying a p style to elements within the div allowed me to circumvent this problem.

There are a lot of things I could improve in my project, whilst I am happy with the finished project, there are a lot more things that could have been changed and done differently. Firstly, I was unable to finish the layout, I'd improve my time management as it is quite easy to spend way to long perfecting small elements of the layout. I would also have liked to have added an API for the weather bar at the top, unfortunately it is static and doesn't serve a purpose currently, however it was quite confusing to get the weather bar working and thought it would have been better to focus my time on the actual layout and content.

I would like to have improved how my code was presented, I can't help thinking that it was quite messy and unorganised and the code could have been a lot smaller and neater with less lines of code for each file.

Research is definitely an area id like to improve on. Looking at a lot more websites that are similar to The Echo could have allowed me to improve the design and how the content is presented in the page. I could also get design influences from these website, knowing that it is conventional on news websites. Time management is also a big issue, leaving things to the last minute is a silly idea and everyone regrets it in the end, however it is easy to underestimate how long something will take, or how long it will take to find a solution to a problem and then implement it in the theme. 