#Learning Goals

The unit we are currently doing at the moment has got to be the unit I have been looking forward to since I started the course. This unit is important to me as this is what I feel to be most related to what I would like to do in the future. My whole reason for choosing to do this course was because I knew that Ravensbourne, whilst not well known to people outside certain specialist industries, it is known by and is considered to be one of the best colleges offering the courses it has and also has a great employment rate after graduation, meaning I will be able to learn new skills i didn’t know, but will also be able to expand on the skills i know already and learn and improve my skills in a more professional context and be able to apply the skills in, for example, the workplace.

 From a young age I’ve always been interested in coding, specifically by using HTML and CSS to design websites. Recently, I’ve also been looking in to using Javascript and PHP to enhance websites, however Javascript (and javascript libraries) and PHP is proving to be a lot more complicated to learn and understand. For this reason, i’d like to use this unit to develop my skills and gain a greater understanding as to how to be able to implement Javascript and PHP in to my websites.

 

Another thing I’d like to goal I’d like to aim for whilst doing this unit, is to understand the logical ways of presenting content on websites, and the journeys people take in websites. In brief, i’d like to understand the codes and conventions of how content is presented on the web, ensuring that the audience is not confused by the journey intended on a certain website, or whether the journey the designer has specified is actually used by the audience. I believe it’s important for the audience to know confidently how to navigate the website and should not get lost or find it difficult to find what they want, otherwise you’ll lose their interest and they’ll be off like a shot. For this reason, i’d like to develop and create great websites which are easy to navigate but doesn't compromise on a great design or make a great design look boring, but also does not compromise on a users experience.

 

One final goal is to be able to design, plan and create a website that tries to fit codes and conventions how a website should behave, look and be designed. But this should not compromise wholly on the look of a theme, I think it’s important to create websites that do break conventions and should look great, but not compromise on a users experience!

 

As for admiration, I don’t think I really admire anyone as such. My admiration comes from browsing the web and seeing a great website design, something that looks great and works. I really detest going to a website and seeing things that don’t work right, websites that haven’t been optimised for high resolution displays and present the content in a poor way, ensuring that your website has been optimised for mobile viewing is also important due to the fact that a lot of people now use smaller screen sizes to view websites online. I think that if you don't include the codes and conventions, this reflects badly on the designer. A website is like a designers advert, if a website doesn’t look good it doesn't reflect well on the designer. When I came across http://www.andersnoren.se (for the Mozilla Festival wordpress theme) I immediately fell in love with the design he used for his own website, I thought it was simple but was suitable for type of content he had on his website.

 

Of course with most things, things are easier said than done. We all have out strengths but we also have our weaknesses. I have to my one of my strengths is the ability to have a fairly good knowledge of how to code using HTML, CSS and Javascript (jquery). However I think a weakness has got to be the amount of knowledge I know in relation to Javascript and also PHP. The web is moving away from being static and will become more dynamic, which is why it is so important to learn PHP. I much prefer learning kinaesthetically, I think watching and listening to people is important but my concentration is non existent. I also think you learn much more by doing things yourself and learning from your mistakes than being told ‘you do this like this’ because you’ll lose interest quickly. When I was younger I started off using piczo, which basically was just a ‘drag and drop’ website, however one good thing was that they allowed you do add html and css to style your page, this was the first time I’d tried anything remotely similar to HTML and CSS.